.TH bitextor "2008 october" "2.0rc1"
.SH NAME
Bitextor \- The automatic bitext generator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bitextor
[options] -d local_path_with_web_pages
.PP
.B bitextor
[options] -w url_to_download_web_pages
.SH DESCRIPTION
Bitextor is an automatic bitext generator which obtains his base corpora from the Internet. It works downloading an entire website (applying a filter to download only those files written in HTML) and comparing every pair of files. It detects the language and, through a group of heuristics (file size, HTML skeleton edit distance, format, etc.), it tries to guess witch files have the same content in different languages. Once it has identified the pairs of files, it generates a bitext file in TMX format.

The objective of this application is to provide a simple way to obtain bilingual corpora in a semi-supervised way to train automatic traducers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print a help message describing all of Bitextor's command-line options.
.TP
\-c path_of_configuration_file
This option lets the user to change the path to find the Bitextor's configuration file.
.TP
\--set_languages
This option lets the user to set manually the language for every file.
.SH THE CONFIGURATION FILE
Bitextor needs a configuration file to work. This file contains all the options that Bitextor needs to do his job. Those are all the possible options in the configuration file:

.B Section general:
.TP
\<tagAlignerConfigFile></tagAlignerConfigFile>
Here you have to set the path were the system can find the configuration file of TagAligner.
.TP
\<textCatConfigFile></textCatConfigFile>
Here you have to set the path were the system can find the configuration file of TextCat.
.TP
\<tagAlignerMode></tagAlignerMode>
There are three modes for TagAligner aligning: 1-Two steps alignement for text distance comparation. 2-Two steps alignement for text length comparation. 3-Two steps direct text and tags alignement.
.TP
\<fileSizePercent></fileSizePercent>
Maximum percentage of difference of size permited between the two texts of the bitext.
.TP
\<textLengthPercent></textLengthPercent>
Maximum percentage of difference of length between two blocs of text (text contained between two HTML tags) to consider them as a possible coincidence.
.TP
\<editDistancePercent></editDistancePercent>
To compare files, Bitextor codifies them with a text-and-tags array (reppresented with a numeric array). This percentage is applied on text-and-tags arrays to compare. If it's greather than the distance obtained in the comparation, the bitext is discarted.
.TP
\<directoryPathDistance></directoryPathDistance>
This parammeter is used to determine the distance between levels of the directory tree for the comparation of files. In example, if we deffine this parammeter whit the value 2, Bitextor will only compare	files with a difference of depth in the directory tree equal or lower than two.
.PP
.B Section irrelevantTags:
.TP
\<tag>tag1</tag><tag>tag2</tag>...
List of tags not analised because they are'nt signifficative.
.PP
.B Section downloadMod:
.TP
\<downloadPath></downloadPath>
Directory of destination for the downloads.
.TP
\<maxBytesToDownload></maxBytesToDownload>
Maximum size to download in bytes.
.TP
\<extensions><acceptedExtension>ext1</acceptedExtension><acceptedExtension>ext2</acceptedExtension>...</extensions>
List of extensions for the files to download.
.PP
Here you have an
.B example
of a full configuration file:

.nf
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!-- This configuration file will contain the set of tags that should be
	 taken in account when comparing and aligning the two files. -->
<configuration>
	<general>
		<tagAlignerConfigFile>/usr/local/etc/bitextor/conf/tagaligner_config.xml</tagAlignerConfigFile>
		<textCatConfigFile>/usr/local/etc/bitextor/LM/conf.txt</textCatConfigFile>
		<tagAlignerMode>1</tagAlignerMode>
		<fileSizePercent>40</fileSizePercent>
		<textLengthPercent>100</textLengthPercent>
		<editDistancePercent>10</editDistancePercent>
		<directoryPathDistance>2</directoryPathDistance>
	</general>
	<irrelevantTags>
		<tag>br</tag>
		<tag>meta</tag>
	</irrelevantTags>
	<downloadMod>
		<downloadPath>/home/miquel/Desktop/</downloadPath>
		<maxBytesToDownload>800000</maxBytesToDownload>
		<extensions>
			<acceptedExtension>php</acceptedExtension>
			<acceptedExtension>asp</acceptedExtension>
			<acceptedExtension>aspx</acceptedExtension>
			<acceptedExtension>xml</acceptedExtension>
			<acceptedExtension>html</acceptedExtension>
			<acceptedExtension>htm</acceptedExtension>
		</extensions>
	</downloadMod>
</configuration>
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES OF USAGE
.TP
Say you want to download and process the entire website from www.gnu.org:
.B bitextor -w www.gnu.org
.TP
Say you want to process a downloaded website saved in /home/my_website:
.B bitextor -d /home/my_website
.TP
Now, if you want to do the same thing in the last case, but using a configuration file placed in /home/my_config.xml:
.B bitextor -c /home/my_config.xml -d /home/my_website
.TP
If you want to process the downloaded website, but you want to tell bitextor the language of every file, yo would have to call bitextor:
.B bitextor --set_languages -d /home/my_website
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/local/etc/bitextor/conf/bitextor_config.xml
The configuration file for Bitextor.
.TP
/usr/local/etc/bitextor/conf/tagaligner_config.xml
The configuration file for LibTagAligner library.
.TP
/usr/local/etc/bitextor/LM/conf.txt
The configuration file for LibTextCat library.
.TP
/usr/local/etc/bitextor/LM/*.lm
All the .lm files wich contains the trigram fingerprints for LibTextCat language identification.
.SH DEPENDENCES
.TP
This application depends on the following tools/libraries:
.nf
- LibTidy (packages 'libtidy-0.99-0' and 'libtidy-dev').
- LibTextCat (packages 'libtextcat0', 'libtextcat-data' and 'libtextcat-dev').
- LibXML++ (packages 'libxml++2.6c2a' and 'libxml++2.6-dev').
- LibEnca (packages 'libenca0' and 'libenca-dev').
- Flex (package 'flex').
- Wget (package 'wget').
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
This version of bitextor has been developped originaly by Miquel Espla.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This application is released under the GNU General Public License.
